The story behind this piece was quite a learning experience and to be honest, I have only used this technique one time.

During my young adult life I was creating the majority of my work on matte-board.  At one point, I was inspired to work with fine brushes and inks. Penciling in the landscape, I proceeded to apply a first coat of white ink.  Letting it dry.  The following session I proceeded to apply the black ink on-top of the white layer.  The end result was such a deflating moment.  Upon drying, the black ink peeled away from the white.  I truly was frustrated because it was something I did not expect.  So I paced the room, thinking of a way to apply multiple layers of ink, without having it peel away from the surface.

During this time, of thought, I decided to finish out the sky with pastel and pencil.

The solution eventually presented itself.  When I was a student at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, I at one time hung out with an Architect Student, Greg Swerbinski (I am confident I am butchering his last name, so I apologize Greg).

I recalled that he used an aerosol product called "Workable Fix-it", for his classroom assignment sketches.  If it worked for his assignments, why not my project?

So I went to my favorite art store, "Hobby Lobby", and purchased a couple of cans.  With caution and patience, I applied a thin layer on-top of the white ink layer, let it dry, and proceeded to apply the black layer of ink. 

Imagine my excitement, when it worked, the black layer did not peel away, and i could proceed with the remaining layers of light tan, dark tan, and white highlights, only to follow with penciled shadowing.  The trick was applying a thin layer of "Workable Fix-it" on-top of each new layer of color.  Looking back I'm surprised I did not get nauseous from the fumes.  Needless, to say, I was able to work the project to completion.

Like i say this was a once in a life-time learning experience; hence why I have never attempted it again.  It just occurred to me that this was the last piece of artwork on matte-board.  I eventually moved back to paper and transitioned to canvas.

Material:  Ink, Pastel, Pencil on Matte-board

Dimensions:  33"(w) x 28" (h) x 0.25"(d)