The third attempt and final attempt in this series. 

It truly has been a journey and quite an experience. This was a new medium for me.  One I can definitely see exploring further. Something I had never imagined finding myself working in.  Other ideas have already come to mind so much so that as of late last year, 2025, I found myself working in Resin, Molding & Casting.  I have also had ideas for new Grey Linoleum Projects and found myself researching alternative distributors for larger sheets of linoleum inclusive of depth.  I would like to have thicker sheets so more definition is possible.  Things to come obviously.

With respect to this third attempt, compensating for texture, detail, depth, and lighting my original inspiration was Half Dome out in the state of California. It turned into a VanGogh'esk Impressionistic, Textured Scene.  To have never seen Half Dome until late 2025, I felt this turned out extremely well.  As I was making my way around Yosemite, I pulled over and walked my way to this face of Half Dome.  At first I was merely enamored with the unbelievable sense of natural beauty, then my eyes shifted directly in front of me where a couple was having their picture taken.  I briefly stood and enjoyed the moment, looking up as to their surroundings and what their picture would capture, was this face of 'Half Dome'.  I remember smiling without hesitation pointing and saying, "Hey, I recognize that".  Clearly I got some weird looks, but who cares.  I thought it was funny and clearly still do, because I am sharing it.  It was nice seeing my inspiration first-hand in real life.  

Yosemite is simply breathtaking and I could see traveling out there again.

Similar to the previous carved piece, layer upon layer upon layer of oil paint was applied.  I guess I never realized how linoleum soaks up oil paint.   Having seen Half Dome I would most likely have chosen different colors for the Rock Face.  The sky itself turned out like ripples in a stream, flowing carelessly across the horizon, as puffs of clouds float about the rock face.  The foreground was meant to be an intermixed of tall waist level grass, billowed by the flowing streams of air on high.  Overall l was pleased with the journey and its final piece.

I definitely see continuing in this medium, that is for certain.

Material:
Grey Linoleum on Particle Board

Dimensions:
18"(w) x 12" (h) x 1.25"(d)